
              END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT 
              RED HAT(R) DIRECTORY SERVER AND
              RED HAT(R) CERTIFICATE SYSTEM

This end user license agreement ("EULA") governs the use of
Red Hat Directory Server (which uses Administration Server
and Red Hat Management Console) and Red Hat Certificate
System (which uses Enterprise Security Client and Auto
Enrollment Proxy) and any related updates to source code,
appearance, structure and organization (each, a "Program")
regardless of the delivery mechanism.

1.  Red Hat Directory Server, Enterprise Security Client and
Auto Enrollment Proxy

1.1  License Grant.  Red Hat Directory Server ("RHDS"),
Enterprise Security Client ("ESC") and Auto Enrollment Proxy
("AEP")are modular applications consisting of hundreds of
software components and are collective works under U.S.
Copyright Law.  Subject to the following terms, Red Hat,
Inc. ("Red Hat") grants to you ('User") a perpetual,
worldwide license to RHDS, ESC and AEP pursuant to the GNU
General Public License v.2 ("GPL").  Please note that
Administration Server and Red Hat Management Console, which
are binary-only code used to configure and administer RHDS,
are subject to the license terms in Section 2.  The end user
license agreement for each component of RHDS, ESC and AEP
are located in the component's source code.  With the
exception of certain image files identified in Section 1.3
below, the license terms for the components permit User to
copy, modify, and redistribute the component, in both source
code and binary code forms.  This EULA does not limit User's
rights under, or grant User rights that supersede, the
license terms of any particular component.

1.2  License Exception.  In addition, as a special
exception, Red Hat gives User the additional right to link
the code of RHDS with code not covered under the GPL
("Non-GPL Code") and to distribute linked combinations
including the two, subject to the limitations in this
paragraph. Non-GPL Code permitted under this exception must
only link to the code of RHDS through those well defined
interfaces identified in that file named EXCEPTION in the
source code files for RHDS (the "Approved Interfaces"). The
files of Non-GPL Code may instantiate templates or use
macros or inline functions from the Approved Interfaces
without causing the resulting work to be covered by the GPL.
Only Red Hat may make changes or additions to the list of
Approved Interfaces. User must comply with the GPL in all
respects for all of the RHDS code and other code used in
conjunction with RHDS except the Non-GPL Code covered by
this exception. If User modifies RHDS, User may extend this
exception to its version of RHDS, but User is not obligated
to do so. If User does not wish to provide this exception
without modification, User must delete this exception
statement from User's version of RHDS and license RHDS
solely under the GPL without exception.

1.3  Intellectual Property Rights.  RHDS, ESC, AEP and each
of their components, including the source code,
documentation, appearance, structure and organization are
owned by Red Hat and others and are protected under
copyright and other laws.  Title to RHDS, ESC, AEP and any
component, or to any copy, modification, or merged portion
shall remain with the aforementioned, subject to the
applicable license.  The "Red Hat" trademark and the
"Shadowman" logo are registered trademarks of Red Hat in the
U.S. and other countries.  This EULA does not permit User to
distribute RHDS, ESC or AEP using Red Hat's trademarks.
User should read the information found at
http://www.redhat.com/about/corporate/trademark/ before
distributing a copy of these Programs, regardless of whether
they have been modified.  User may make a commercial
redistribution of RHDS, ESC or AEP only if (a) a separate
agreement with Red Hat authorizing such commercial
redistribution is executed or other written permission is
granted by Red Hat or (b) User modifies any files identified
as "REDHAT-LOGOS" to remove and replace all images
containing the "Red Hat" trademark or the "Shadowman" logo.
Merely deleting these files may corrupt the Programs.

2.  Red Hat Certificate System, Administration Server, and
Red Hat Management Console

2.1  License Grant.  Subject to the provisions of this
Section 2.1, Red Hat hereby grants User a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, worldwide, perpetual, fully paid right
(without the right to sublicense) to use, reproduce and
distribute Red Hat Certificate System ("RHCS"),
Administration Server ("Admin Server"), and Red Hat
Management Console ("Console") in executable,
machine-readable form.  User must reproduce all copyright
and other proprietary notices on such copies.  User may only
reproduce and distribute RHCS, Admin Server or Console to
another party if the other party agrees in writing to be
obligated by the terms and conditions of this Section 2.1.
Except as provided in this Section 2.1, User may not modify,
copy, transfer or otherwise use RHCS, Admin Server, or
Console, and all licenses granted hereunder are
automatically terminated if User does so.

2.2  Change in Licensing.  It is Red Hat's intent to change
the terms of the license granted under this Section 2 to
those of an open source license.  If such change is
generally announced to the public, User will have the option
to elect to have RHCS, Admin Server and Console be governed
by the terms of such open source license.  If User does not
make such election, the terms of this Agreement will
continue to govern User's use of the RHCS, Admin Server and
Console.

3.  Limited Warranty.  Except as specifically stated in this
Section 3, a separate agreement with Red Hat, or a license
for a particular component, to the maximum extent permitted
under applicable law, the Programs and the components are
provided and licensed "as is" without warranty of any kind,
expressed or implied, including the implied warranties of
merchantability, non-infringement or fitness for a
particular purpose.  Red Hat warrants that the media on
which the  Programs and the components are furnished will be
free from defects in materials and manufacture under normal
use for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
delivery to User.  Red Hat does not warrant that the
functions contained in the Programs will meet User's
requirements or that the operation of the Programs will be
entirely error free, appear precisely as described in the
accompanying documentation, or comply with regulatory
requirements. This warranty extends only to the party that
purchases services pertaining to the Programs from Red Hat
or a Red Hat authorized distributor.

4.  Limitation of Remedies and Liability. To the maximum
extent permitted by applicable law, User's exclusive remedy
under this EULA is to return any defective media within
thirty (30) days of delivery along with a copy of User's
payment receipt and Red Hat, at its option, will replace it
or refund the money paid by User for the media.  To the
maximum extent permitted under applicable law, neither Red
Hat, any Red Hat authorized distributor, nor the licensor of
any component provided to User under the EULA will be liable
to User for any incidental or consequential damages,
including lost profits or lost savings arising out of the
use or inability to use the Programs or any component, even
if Red Hat, such authorized distributor or licensor has been
advised of the possibility of such damages.  In no event
shall Red Hat's liability, an authorized distributor's
liability or the liability of the licensor of a component
provided to User under this EULA exceed the amount that User
paid to Red Hat under this EULA during the twelve (12)
months preceding the action.

5.  Export Control.  As required by the laws of the United
States and other countries, User represents and warrants
that it: (a) understands that the Programs and their
components may be subject to export controls under the U.S.
Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations
("EAR"); (b) is not located in a prohibited destination
country under the EAR or U.S. sanctions regulations
(currently Cuba, Iran, Iraq,  North Korea, Sudan and Syria,
subject to change as posted by the United States
government); (c) will not export, re-export, or transfer the
Programs to any prohibited destination or  persons or
entities on the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security Denied
Parties List or Entity List, or the U.S. Office of Foreign
Assets Control list of Specially Designated Nationals and
Blocked Persons, or any similar lists maintained by other
countries, without the necessary export license(s) or
authorization(s); (d) will not use or transfer the Programs
for use in connection with any nuclear, chemical or
biological weapons, missile technology, or military end-uses
where prohibited by an applicable arms embargo, unless
authorized by the relevant government agency by regulation
or specific license; (e) understands and agrees that if it
is in the United States and exports or transfers the
Programs to eligible end users, it will, to the extent
required by EAR Section 740.17(e), submit semi-annual
reports to the Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and
Security , which include the name and address (including
country) of each transferee; and (f) understands that
countries including the United States may restrict the
import, use, or export of encryption products (which may
include the Programs and the components) and agrees that it
shall be solely responsible for compliance with any such
import, use, or export restrictions.

6.  Third Party Programs. Red Hat may distribute third party
software programs with the Programs that are not part of the
Programs.  These third party programs are not required to
run the Programs, are provided as a convenience to User, and
are subject to their own license terms.  The license terms
either accompany the third party software programs or can be
viewed at
http://www.redhat.com/licenses/thirdparty/eula.html.  If
User does not agree to abide by the applicable license terms
for the third party software programs, then User may not
install them.  If User wishes to install the third party
software programs on more than one system or transfer the
third party software programs to another party, then User
must contact the licensor of the applicable third party
software programs.

7.  General.  If any provision of this agreement is held to
be unenforceable, that shall not affect the enforceability
of the remaining provisions.  This agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of New York and of the
United States, without regard to any conflict of laws
provisions.  The rights and obligations of the parties to
this EULA shall not be governed by the United Nations
Convention on the International Sale of Goods.

